---
title: Long Bet Predictions
---

# Introduction

This is a collection of some few predictions of technological
developments. Predicting the future is of course very difficult. These
predictions have been made simply for the fun of it. Nothing more,
nothing less.

Not all of the predictions are that long, and none of them are bets
involving money

# Long Bet -- Prediction: Flying cars

Date: 2020-08-06

I say that \"flying cars\" (e.g., as a taxi service) will start to
become available in the early 2030s, and that they will be completely
normal by the 2050s.

The opposing party says that \"flying cars\" will not be normal until at
least the 2080s.

By \"flying cars,\" we mean smaller flying vehicles for personal
transport that can land, for example, in a house\'s garden, on a
building\'s roof, or perhaps outside the house/building within 750
meters, and from there can fly one or more people to a destination
within the same city or farther away.

By \"start to become available,\" we mean that \"flying cars\" are
available as a taxi service or similar in at least two cities worldwide,
even if it does not cover the entire city.

By \"normal,\" we mean that:

a\) \"flying cars\" are available to at least 3 private individuals
living within 750 meters, AND

b\) at least 3 private individuals have taken at least 3 trips in a
flying car.

(Note: \"Flying cars\" are sometimes referred to as vehicles that can
BOTH fly AND drive on roads. However, that is not the definition we are
using here.)

# Long Bet -- Prediction: Self-driving Vehicles (Denmark)

Date: 2023-12-16

## Introduction

Given the discussions that we have had concerning self-driving vehicles
I have made some specific, concrete predictions that follows below.
Discussions can sometimes become quite vague, so I thought I would make
some specific predictions about specific capabilities in specific
timeframes.

It is immensely difficult to make predictions concerning self-driving
vehicles. Because maybe the technology will be good enough, but
regulation will not allow it and public opinion will be against it.

In USA alone more than 40,000 humans are killed each year in traffic
while 1.5 million more are injured. Globally approximately 1.35 million
are killed. Traffic fatalities and injuries may cost countries as much
as 3% of GDP. Given the nature of driving -- cars being hard, heavy
objects moving at speed, humans being soft and vulnerable bags of meat
-- it is probably unlikely that fatalities and injuries will ever become
zero.

If self-driving vehicles were to kill and injure humans at a rate of X,
and human-driven vehicles were to kill humans at a rate of Y, logic
would dictate, that when X is less than Y, self-driving would quickly be
preferred by society. However, it seems that society will demand X to be
much, much lower than Y for self-driving vehicles to be acceptable.

On the one hand, the high demands may be a net positive, as it forces
the developing companies to 'try harder'. On the other hand, it may be a
net negative, as it simply forces companies out of developing the
technology and ultimately delays it, ultimately resulting in millions of
unnecessary fatalities, injuries, and costs worldwide.

The positive benefit from self-driving vehicles will be that more people
can live longer and more productive lives, and that goods and people can
move quicker, easier, and cheaper from A to B.

#SelfDrivingPredictions #2024 #LongBet

## Predictions

I have chosen to make the predictions specifically about Denmark. This
makes them more specific, more testable, and easier to express. Denmark
is a generally technologically advanced society but is not currently at
the forefront of autonomous driving. Denmark is known for generally
putting safety first and does not have any car manufacturers of its own
(all cars are imported).

Remember that laws in Denmark are implemented either by the national
parliament or by the EU.

The four predictions are made for three different years. They are meant
as 'during that year', so technically if it happens on the very last day
of the year, the condition is met.

The first three predictions are about when it becomes technically
possible and more importantly legal. Of course, such technology will
first be used by early adopters who will pay more, and only later and
gradually become ubiquitous.

The fourth and last prediction is about the announcement of law.

### Year 2028 - Prediction #1

In Denmark, within five years from now, it will be possible to purchase
and operate a car that can and is allowed to drive fully autonomously on
all Danish motorways at full speed (i.e. the allowed speed limit of 130
KM/h).

An adult who is licensed to drive, i.e. "the operator", must be present
in the car. They may sleep while the car is driving, but they are not
allowed to be intoxicated. The car is required to be able to wake up the
responsible operator and hand over driving or management to them.

### Year 2032 - Prediction #2

In Denmark, within nine years from now, it will be possible to purchase
and operate a car that can and is allowed to drive fully autonomously
99% of the time for 99% of drivers. I.e. the car cannot drive
autonomously on all roads and areas, but for 99% of people it will cover
where they drive 99% of the time.

Either an adult who is licensed to drive must be present, or
alternatively the car must be able to be safely remotely controlled.
(I.e. allowance/support for either meets the condition. Perhaps remote
control will come later.)

### Year 2032 - Prediction #3

In Denmark, within nine years from now, it will be possible for
companies to purchase and operate lorries that can and are allowed to
drive autonomously on a subset of the Danish roads including motorways
and larger roads. While such lorries cannot make deliveries to houses,
they can autonomously move goods around Denmark from warehouses to
factories and so on.

Such lorries will likely be made as a type of hybrid where human
operators can jump on board and make last-mile deliveries outside of the
pre-approved roads.

### Year 2038 - Prediction #4

In Denmark, within 15 years from now, end of human-driving will be
announced as law. That it is announced meets the condition. But it could
be something along the lines that from 2045 all new cars must be fully
autonomous and from say 2053 only autonomous cars must drive on the
roads. There may be a few exceptions with e.g. operating construction or
other special purpose machinery that needs to be driven.

### Discussion point: Change in car ownership?

It is often predicted that when cars become fully autonomous, car
ownership will cease as a concept, and everyone will take a form of
autonomous taxi for every journey. This is more of a cultural thing, so
it is more difficult to predict. So, I won't make a hard prediction. But
I do believe, that while taxi services of various forms will increase
significantly, car ownership will stay roughly the same for the next
25-30 years.

### Discussion point: Flying vehicle ownership?

Over the same period autonomous flying vehicles for person transport are
likely to become available and eventually commonplace (according to
great thinkers such as myself). However, as an entirely new category, I
don't think people will start owning these types of vehicles. Instead,
these will be predominantly consumed as taxi like services.

But that's a whole other story. ðŸ˜„

# Long Bet -- Prediction: Spatial Computer Prediction

Date: 2024-02-04

#longbet #prediction #SpatialComputerPrediction

1\) I predict that before the end of 2035 these 'spatial computer'
headsets will become the dominant personal computing platform for
white-collar workers in USA. I.e. more than 50% of white-collar workers
will use it more than 50% of the time they are using personal computers.

2\) I also believe that these headsets will be a contributing factor in
increasing remote work. However, I cannot quantify that.

3\) I also predict that before the end of 2035 Vision Pro will
contribute more revenue to Apple than the iPhone at the time.

# Long Bet -- Prediction: Humanoid Robots

Date: 2024-03-16

#HumanoidRobotsPredictions #LongBet

## Predictions

### About

These predictions focus almost solely on the numbers of humanoid robots
being bought to do meaningful work. These predictions do not directly
address the evolving capabilities of the robots or what type of work
they are able to do. There is of course the implication, that the number
of bought units will increase as their capabilities and usefulness
increase.

Generally humanoid robots will start out doing the simplest tasks, like
e.g. moving trays from Pallet A to Conveyor Belt B. They will do this
inside factories, warehouses, or similar, and it is important to
understand, that these environments are by default, controlled
environments away from the public. Soon humanoid robots will be able to
do end-to-end pick and pack in a variety of environments. It will take
longer for humanoid robots to do e.g. assembly, but it will come. And in
time they will come to supermarkets and retail shops and these kinds of
things. And ultimately, they will wait and cook in restaurants, as well
as clean our homes and sew our clothes.

And while it would be wildly interesting to go into details concerning
these developments, these here predictions simplify the entire matter to
the number of bought units who do meaningful work per year.

It is worth noting, that exactly because the factories, warehouses, and
similar, where the humanoid robots will be deployed first, are
controlled environments away from the public, regulatory approval will
not be an issue. There are already many non-humanoid robots working in
these environments. I don't believe that any regulatory approval will be
needed to add humanoid robots to these types of environments and
operations.

Humanoid robots will co-exist with the type of specialised industrial
robots and specialised warehouse robots we already see in use today. But
humanoid robots are generally wildly superior exactly because of their
flexibility. They will generally be much more economical than robots who
can do a narrow set of operations in a narrow environment. Even though
to the inexperienced eye they seem highly efficient at their specific
tasks.

For reference and comparison, the global auto industry currently
manufactures 70-80 million cars per year. China is currently the single
largest market where approx. 25 million cars are sold per year (i.e.
roughly a third of the global market). Close to 1.5 billion cars are
currently in use globally.

Also for reference and comparison, I estimate the current global
workforce to be in the region of 3.25 billion to 3.75 billion. This
makes for a current dependency ratio of 1.15-1.5. (The estimates of
current global workforce and resulting dependency ratio are "quick
estimates" made by me personally.)

As always, it is difficult to predict the future. I feel that these
predictions are very conservative, and consequently I am very confident
in them. I would not be too surprised, to see this suddenly exploding
like mad. The ball is round.

Of course, there are additional concerns about whether the public will
allow humanoid robots to take their jobs. Will it be seen that way? And
what will the reaction be? I don't deal with such concerns in these
predictions, but these issues most certainly could impact developments.

###  Definitions

Humanoid robots are robots that largely resemble the human form (hence
humanoid). In this definition I will allow for robots who may have a
wheelbase instead of two walking legs and who may have a type of hands
that is not with five digits. But if we can largely identify a torso, a
head either on or in top of the torso, and two arms, where at the end
the robot has equipment to grip and/or manipulate, then we accept it as
a humanoid robot in this definition.

Meaningful work is work that directly or indirectly contributes to the
output of the employer, or that is generally necessary for the upkeep of
the employer's assets. It is not necessary that the robots are
economical (i.e. cheaper to employ than human labour). The robots may be
part of a test, trial, beta, proof-of-concept, or similar.

Employer (buyer) is any company or other type of organisation that buys,
rents, leases, hires, or are given humanoid robots to implement into
their supply chains or otherwise required work. In the slightly longer
run, the employer (buyer) may be private families or individuals.

Some discussions out there on the great big Internet and beyond may
perhaps focus on that humanoid robots must be more economical than human
labour. And some say, that if they are not, then they are not doing
meaningful work. While this certainly is a meaningful goal post, it can
be hard to pin down. Especially when in the future, humanoid robots may
be in use in private homes and similar. My predictions here do not
consider whether humanoid robots are more economical than human labour.
Instead, the predictions focus purely on, the number of robots taken
into use as per these definitions. We are kind of side-stepping the
issue: At first, of course, humanoid robots will be deployed as a test,
trial, beta, and that kind of similar thing. This is the way of things.
No way around it. Later, if the units are being sold and are doing work,
the employers (buyers) must feel that they are worth the price tag
whatever it may be.

These predictions do not take issue with, if the buyers or manufacturers
are right or wrong, but simply the numbers being manufactured,
purchased, and used.

## Prediction A: 2026 

By the end of 2026 (within nearly 2 years and 9 months from now), there
will have been produced at least 300 humanoid robots that will have been
deployed in factories, warehouses or similar, that are doing meaningful
work.

So, i.e., this does not include in the count the multitude of humanoid
robots that may be used for training and development work in the
humanoid robot companies themselves, in universities and these kinds of
things, or in isolated deployments not relevant for a real output. We
are counting only the number that are doing meaningful work as per that
definition above.

## Prediction B: 2028

By the end of 2028 (within nearly 4 years from now), there will have
been deployed at least 10,000 humanoid robots that are doing meaningful
work.

## Prediction C: 2029

Within the year of 2029 (5 years from now), there will have been
deployed at least 100,000 humanoid robots that are doing meaningful
work.

The accumulated number of robots performing meaningful work in the
global economy is at least 110,000.

## Prediction D: 2030

Within the year of 2030 (6 years from now), there will have been
deployed at least 250,000 humanoid robots that are doing meaningful
work.

The accumulated number of robots performing meaningful work is at least
360,000.

## Prediction E: 2032

The revolution will take off with massive increases in mass
manufacturing. Within the year of 2032 (8 years from now), there will be
bought at least 10 million humanoid robots.

The accumulated number of humanoid robots in active use is in the region
of 11 million units or higher.

I predict this massive increase, because at this stage, a) the concept
will by far have been proved, and b) the relevant companies will invest
heavily in increased mass manufacturing capabilities to meet the demand.
It is also highly likely, that humanoid robots will contribute
significantly to the manufacture of humanoid robots.

## Prediction F: 2033 and onwards

The number of bought units will increase with at least 10 million per
year. So, 2033 will be at least 20 million, 2034 will be at least 30
million and so on.

By the end of the decade, e.g. 2039 and 2040, the yearly number bought
will be significantly higher than 100 million.

## Prediction G: 2050

By 2050 (25 years from now) the number of humanoid robots in use will
significantly outnumber the number of cars and will be at least 2.5
billion. It may be as much as 12 billion.

I predict this because a) the economic value of humanoid robots will be
completely evident prior to this stage, b) because the relevant
companies will have had more than sufficient time to invest in
manufacturing capacity, and c) because humanoid robots themselves will
make significant contributions to building humanoid robots.

I don't know about you guys, but with a bit of luck, I will celebrate my
73-year birthday in 2050.

## Prediction H: 2050 Bonus

By 2050 there will be humanoid robots on Mars, on Earth's moon, and at
least one more non-terrestrial locale in the solar system.

# Prediction: AGI

Date: 2025-01-18

Pending definition, but feels like around 2028 ish.
